================================================================
====================== How to Train Gabo =======================
================================================================


Gabo is trained through conversation with the user. When you
load gabo for the first time, this is what you will see:


===================== Welcome to Gabo v0.1 =====================

If you are new to Gabo, please read the README.txt or type /help

Say something...

User:


Type in a sentence under User: and hit enter. Your sentence can 
be anything, for example exclamation, statement, question, or 
even a single word. 

For this example, we'll use a greeting.


User:
Hello there.


Now Gabo will respond.


User:
Hello there.

          Gabo:
          hello

 
So far so good, but remember that this is a conversation. We 
should keep going. Let's ask Gabo how it's doing.


User:
How are you?

          Gabo:
          hello


That doesn't make much sense as a response to "How are you?" 
This is because when you first start training Gabo (or after a 
reset), Gabo only knows one word, "hello."

Luckily, we can correct any of Gabo's responses that don't make 
sense with a simple command.

After the last input, our screen looked like this:


User:
How are you?

          Gabo:
          hello

User:


If we want to replace "hello", we can simply type "//" and then 
type the corrected response.


User:
How are you?

          Gabo:
          hello

User:
//I'm fine, thanks.


After we enter this corrected response, it is saved to Gabo's
vocabulary. Gabo then displays the corrected conversation:

User:
How are you?

          Gabo:
          hello

User:
//I'm fine, thanks.

User:
How are you?

          Gabo:
          I'm fine, thanks.


Gabo has learned a new response, and linked it to the question
"How are you?" Lets keep going.


User:
What's your name?

          Gabo:
          I'm fine, thanks.

Whoops, looks like another mismatched answer. Gabo recognized
the sentence as a question, but it only knows one answer to 
questions. Let's teach it some more.

User:
What's your name?

          Gabo:
          I'm fine, thanks.

User:
//My name is Gabo.

User:
What's your name?

          Gabo:
          My name is Gabo.

User:
Hello there, Gabo.

          Gabo:
          hello


Now we're getting somewhere! Notice how Gabo knew to respond
with "hello" when you said "Hello there, Gabo." Let's take a 
look at how Gabo works to understand why.


================================================================
======================== How Gabo Works ========================
================================================================


As I mentioned before, Gabo begin with a vocabulary of one word,
"hello." Every time you type a sentence under User:, Gabo reads,
analyses, and stores it into its vocabulary. It does this for
any corrected responses too, but these get stored in a separate
location within the vocabulary. Each new user sentence and Gabo
response you enter increases the size of its vocabulary and 
allows Gabo to have more variety in its conversation.

When responding to sentence, it first reads what you, the user, 
said (which we'll call the user prompt) and compares it to all
of the other user prompts it's been told before. It is looking
for user prompts with words, phrases, and punctuation in common
with the prompt you just typed.

When it finds the best match, it looks at how you responded to
that matching user prompt, and repeats that response. It then
creates a link between the response and the user prompt inside
the vocabulary's "metadata."

This is what happened when we prompted Gabo with the question
"What's your name?" Gabo read this prompt and searched its
vocabulary for a match. At this point, Gabo had been taught the
following prompts: "Hello there." and, "How are you?" The prompt 
"What's your name?" doesn't have any words in common with either
of these, so Gabo looked for punctuation instead.

Since "What's your name?" has a question mark, Gabo determined
that the user prompt "How are you?" was the best match, and it
responded with the same response, "I'm fine, thanks."

When we corrected this response to "My name is Gabo." Gabo 
stored this sentence in its vocabulary as a new response and
overwrote old the link to the prompt, "What's your name?" This
means that whenever Gabo is asked "What's your name?" (or a 
similar prompt) again, it will respond with "My name is Gabo."

This can help us understand how Gabo knew to respond our last 
prompt, "Hello there, Gabo." with the appropriate response, 
"hello." Let's look at all of the user prompts and their linked 
responses up to this point:

Hello there.      >> hello
How are you?      >> I'm fine, thanks.
What's your name? >> My name is Gabo.

"Hello there." has two words in common and matching punctuation.
That makes it the best match for "Hello there, Gabo." so Gabo
guessed that "hello" was the best fit. Good work, Gabo!

As you train Gabo, it gets better and better at making these
judgements. With enough time, the conversation can start to feel 
natural, with fewer corrections. Eventually, Gabo might even
surprise you with some unexpectedly witty or bizarrely 
appropriate response.

How will your Gabo turn out? Will it have personality? or wit?
or sass? Will it be smart? or socially awkward? You have to 
train it to find out!


================================================================
=========================== Commands ===========================
================================================================


The Gabo console has a number of inbuilt commands to control the
behind the scenes aspects of training your Gabo.

================================================================
